---
title: 'Configuring a registered "boleto" (Brazilian off-line payment method)'
id: frequentlyAskedQuestions_2867
status: DRAFT
createdAt: 2019-01-24T20:46:00.197Z
updatedAt: 2024-03-18T18:09:27.673Z
publishedAt: 
firstPublishedAt: 2019-01-24T22:08:27.705Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Financial
author: authors_3
slug: configuring-a-registered-boleto
locale: en
legacySlug: configuring-a-registered-boleto
subcategory: 3tDGibM2tqMyqIyukqmmMw
---

The registered "boleto" (Brazilian off-line payment method) is a new type of bank payment form in Brazil. 

The implementation of this payment form took place in November 2018, when the Brazilian Federation of Banks (Febraban) announced that every "boleto" must be registered.

It has enabled the banks to reduce the number of frauds, and the entire purchase and sale transaction process is recorded, providing more control and security.

VTEX has adapted to this measure and there are now several ways of making this payment method available in your store. For Bradesco, Itaú and Santander banks, it is possible to select the specific connector directly in the payments module:

- [Boleto Santander](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/configurar-boleto-registrado-santander--67siNqkC7mcgy2GWUYimaa)
- [Boleto Itaú](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/configurar-boleto-registrado-itau-itau-registrado--6MEHf1oDTOkuWM2CaYi4gu)
- [Itaú Shopline](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/configurar-boleto-registrado-itau--3TqzCHPU7KIYGsOKuUeQcq)
- [Boleto Bradesco Registrado](https://help.vtex.com/pt/tutorial/configurar-boleto-registrado-bradesco--bbnXBjvKOkWYiOosmASiA)

In addition, VTEX has an automatic integration for Bradesco and Itaú Shopline registered "boletos". However, for "boletos" created without an acquisition, the reconciliation is done through a .RET file.

Every client should get this file from their respective bank. In this specific example, we use Itaú Registrado and Santander. We emphasize that these files must necessarily follow the standard established by Febraban.

For other banks, you must use one of the gateways available in your store's Admin (eg Braspag, PagSeguro Transparente, CieloV3, among others).

The cost of a registered "boleto" is different from that of the traditional "boleto" and varies according to your agreement with the bank. Make sure you plan this properly and control your margin.

When your store has a contract with a payment gateway, the creation of the "boleto" - as well as the validity of its information - becomes the gateway's responsibility, and __not VTEX's__. Therefore, once you made the contract with the gateway, make sure that the issuance is being made with the correct data.

**Attention:** A **unique** sequence is generated by VTEX for each registered "boleto".
Modifying this number is no longer allowed, preventing the store from associating the "boleto" number with the corresponding order number in the Orders Management module.
The creation of this number by VTEX guarantees that each "boleto" is unique and reduces the risk of exemption from payment due to repeating numbers on different "boletos".

## Related articles

- [How to configure gateway affiliation](/en/tutorial/registering-gateway-affiliations/)

