---
title: Setting up CyberSource antifraud
id: 2Z88QmpRAsWmI0qaCo4aQg
status: PUBLISHED
createdAt: 2018-04-30T18:08:44.396Z
updatedAt: 2023-03-26T21:48:46.023Z
publishedAt: 2023-03-26T21:48:46.023Z
firstPublishedAt: 2018-04-30T20:25:40.199Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Financial
author: 245tA425AIeioKAk2eaiwS
slug: setting-up-cybersource-antifraud
legacySlug: setting-up-cybersource-antifraud
subcategory: 3tDGibM2tqMyqIyukqmmMw
---

CyberSource is a company that offers several solutions to help you manage your store's payments. These include a [gateway](/en/tutorial/what-is-a-payment-gateway) and an [antifraud](/en/tutorial/what-is-anti-fraud) system, both with integrations available at VTEX.

If you are looking for more details about __gateway__ CyberSource, read [this Help article](/en/tutorial/setting-up-cybersource-gateway). To configure CyberSource __antifraude__, follow the steps below:

## Setting up the CyberSource Anti-Fraud

<div class="alert alert-info">
Each store must have only one Device Fingerprint registered. Check if you have already registered the Device Fingerprint in another connector, before performing Step 6. of this section.
</div>
1. 
2. In the VTEX Admin, go to **Store Settings** > **Payment** > **Settings**, or type **Settings** in the search bar at the top of the page.
3. On the __Gateway Affiliations__ tab, click the __+__ button.
4. Click the __CyberSource__ connector that is in the _ANTIFRAUDS_ section.
5. Set the `https://{store}.vtexpayments.com.br/api/pub/cybersource/antifraud/notification` URL on the CyberSource website, replacing `{store}` with your store name. This will enable notifications when the status of an order changes.
6. Set up the device fingerprint in Google Tag Manager using [this Help article](/en/faq/how-to-set-up-the-device-fingerprint-for-braspagcybersource).
7. Fill in the registration fields with the data provided by CyberSource (_Merchant ID at CyberSource_, _Your CyberSource's username_ and _Your CyberSource's password_).
8. In the __Your company's name__ field, enter the business name of your store.
9. In __Your company's tax id__, inform the tax id number of your store.
10. Under __Private certificate (.p12)__, upload a valid private certificate (generated by you, using a third-party certifier or software), with a .p12 extension and key.
11. In __Private certificate password__, enter the password you created to access the certificate.
12. In __Merchant Key ID__ and __Merchant Secret Key__, enter data provided by CyberSource to access reporting API.
13. In __Documento Opcional__, select whether document submission is required for fraud analysis.
14. Under __Send authenticated transactions?__, choose whether to send all transactions for anti-fraud analysis or only those that are not authenticated.
15. Click __Save__.

## Associating the anti-fraud with a payment condition
After setting up CyberSource's anti-fraud system, it will be available for use in your store. But you must associate it with the payment conditions, either the ones that are already configured or the ones that you are still going to make available.

1. Within PCI Gateway __Settings__, click on the __Payment Conditions__ tab.
2. Click on the desired condition or [create a new payment condition](/en/tutorial/how-to-configure-payment-conditions).
3. Check the __Use antifraud__ option.
4. Select __CyberSource__.
5. Click __Save__.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
For a transaction to go through antifraud analysis, <strong>the payment condition used by the customer must be associated with it</strong>.
</div>
