---
title: Setting up payments with PayClub
id: 3C3bDia3Tyq48MOuMomcUW
status: PUBLISHED
createdAt: 2018-04-03T13:12:17.337Z
updatedAt: 2023-03-28T00:07:06.076Z
publishedAt: 2023-03-28T00:07:06.076Z
firstPublishedAt: 2018-04-03T15:07:32.416Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Financial
author: 245tA425AIeioKAk2eaiwS
slug: setting-up-payments-with-payclub
legacySlug: setting-up-payments-with-payclub
subcategory: 3tDGibM2tqMyqIyukqmmMw
---

You can configure PayClub [sub-acquirer](/en/tutorial/what-is-a-sub-acquirer) to receive payments at your store. With it, your client chooses the __payment method__ PayClub and performs the authentication in the external environment of the payment solution.

To enable PayClub payments, follow the steps below:

## Setting up PayClub gateway affiliation
1. In the VTEX Admin, go to **Store Settings** > **Payment** > **Settings**, or type **Settings** in the search bar at the top of the page.
2. On the __Gateway Affiliations__ tab, click the __+__ button.
3. Click the __PayClub__ connector.
4. Fill in the registration fields with the data provided by PayClub (fields _Código Adquirente_, _MerchantId_, _LocalId_, _ChavePrivadaAssinatura_, _ChavePrivadaCriptografia_, _ChavePublicaAssinaturaPayClub_, _ChavePublicaCriptografiaPayClub_ and _Simetrica_).
5. In the __RUC__ field, enter your store registration code.
6. In __CodigoMoeda__, fill in the [ISO 4217 code](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) of the currency that will be used in the payments.
7. In the __Vector__ field, type the string of up to 16 characters (letters and numbers only) generated by your store.
8. In __Zona Horaria__, set the time zone for downloading the bank reconciliation file.
9. Click __Save__.

## Setting up PayClub payment condition
1. Within Payments __Settings__, click on the __Payment conditions__ tab.
2. Click the __+__ button. 
3. Select __PayClub__ payment method.
4. Click the __Status__ button to enable this payment condition.
5. In __Processar com a afiliação__ ("Process with affiliation"), the option _PayClub_ will already be selected (since it's the only one available).
6. If there is an anti-fraud set up in your store, you can activate it for this payment condition by checking the __Use Anti-Fraud__ box.
7. You can configure [special payment conditions](/en/tutorial/special-conditions).
8. Click __Save__.

After following the steps indicated above, PayClub will appear at your store checkout as a payment option. After clicking to finish purchase, your client will be redirected to authentication in the PayClub environment.
