---
title: 'Setting up payments with Alignet'
id: 4qfl6jgDyMGA0IuM0siEii
status: PUBLISHED
createdAt: 2018-03-28T20:48:01.728Z
updatedAt: 2023-03-29T01:04:08.516Z
publishedAt: 2023-03-29T01:04:08.516Z
firstPublishedAt: 2018-03-28T23:00:56.209Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Financial
author: 245tA425AIeioKAk2eaiwS
slug: setting-up-payments-with-alignet
locale: en
legacySlug: setting-up-payments-with-alignet
subcategory: 3tDGibM2tqMyqIyukqmmMw
---

On VTEX platform, you can set up the Alignet [sub-acquirer](/en/tutorial/what-is-a-sub-acquirer) to receive payments in your store. With it, your client chooses the __payment method__ Alignet and is redirected for authentication in the sub-acquirer's environment.

To set it up, follow the steps below:

## Setting up Alignet gateway affiliation
1. In the VTEX Admin, go to **Store Settings** > **Payment** > **Settings**, or type **Settings** in the search bar at the top of the page.
2. On the __Gateway affiliations__ tab, click the __+__ button.
3. Click the __Alignet__ connector.
4. In the __Acquirer__ field, choose the acquirer that will be used in the integration.
5. Fill in the registration fields with the data provided by Alignet (fields _Código Adquirente_, _CodigoComercio_, _CodigoMall_, _CodigoTerminal_ _ChavePrivadaAssinatura_, _ChavePrivadaCriptografia_, _ChavePublicaAssinaturaAlignet_ and _ChavePublicaCriptografiaAlignet_).
6. In the __CodigoMoeda__ field, fill in the code [ISO 4217](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) of the currency that will be used in the payments.
7. In __Linguagem__ ("Language"), choose between Spanish and English.
8. In the __Vector__ field, fill in the sequence of up to 16 characters (letters and numbers only) generated by your store.
9. Click __Save__.

## Setting up Alignet payment condition
1. Within the Payments __Settings__, click on the __Payment conditions__ tab.
2. Click the __+__ button.
3. Click __Alignet__ payment method.
4. Click the __Status__ button to enable this payment condition.
5. If your store has an anti-fraud set up, you can activate it by checking the __Use Anti-Fraud__ box.
6. If you wish, you can also add a [special payment condition](/en/tutorial/special-conditions).
8. Click __Save__.

After following the steps indicated above, Alignet will appear at your store checkout as a payment option. After clicking __Finish Purchase__, your client will be redirected to authentication in the Alignet environment. 

You may also enable this payment condition by using the [Pay-me connector](/en/tutorial/setting-up-pay-me-gateway).
