---
title: Setting up payments with WebPay
id: 4NdDfy57gc68cewEwwKGAS
status: DRAFT
createdAt: 2018-03-28T12:40:53.139Z
updatedAt: 2022-12-23T20:47:49.808Z
publishedAt: 
firstPublishedAt: 2018-04-02T19:28:30.940Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Financial
author: 245tA425AIeioKAk2eaiwS
slug: setting-up-payments-with-webpay
legacySlug: setting-up-payments-with-webpay
subcategory: 3tDGibM2tqMyqIyukqmmMw
---

You can set up the [sub-acquirer](/en/tutorial/what-is-a-sub-acquirer) WebPay to receive payments in your store. With it, your client chooses WebPay __payment method__ and performs the authentication in the external environment of the payment solution.

To enable payments with WebPay, follow the steps below:

## Setting up WebPay gateway affiliation
1. Access the __Payments__ module.
2. Click __Settings__.
3. On the __Gateway affiliations__ tab, click the __+__ button.
4. Click the __WebPay__ Connector.
5. In the __Código Comercio T. Crédito__ field, enter the number "5970" and the code of your store to use credit cards.
6. __Periodo de Gracia__ is a field that applies only to cash payments.
7. Under __Tipo de Integracion__ ("Type of Integration"), choose the option that represents the type of business agreement your store has with WebPay.
8. In __Dias para captura de seguridad__ ("Days for security capture"), enter the period after which you want the security capture to take place.
9. In __Tiempo de espera de procesamiento__ ("Process waiting time"), set (in days or hours) the time you want to wait for the payment authorization before the order is canceled.
10. In __Senha do certificado privado__ ("Private certificate password"), fill in the password of your store's certificate.
11. Under __Seleccione el certificado privado (.p12)__ "Select the private certificate", upload a valid private certificate (generated by you, using a third-party certifier or software), with a .p12 extension and key.
12. In __Seleccione el certificado público de respuesta (.crt)__ ("Select the answer public certificate"), upload a valid public certificate with a .crt extension (sent by WebPay).
13. In __Tipo de Comercio__ ("Type of Commerce"), choose between _NORMAL_ and _MALL_.
14. Click __Save__.

## Setting up WebPay payment condition
1. Within the Payments __Settings__, click the __Payment conditions__ tab.
2. Click the __+__ button.
3. Select the __WebPay__ payment method.
4. Click the __Status__ button to enable this payment condition.
5. Under __Processar com a afiliação__ ("Process with affiliation"), choose the _WebPay_ option.
6. If there's an anti-fraud set up in your store, you can activate it for this payment condition by checking the __Use Anti-Fraud__ box.
7. You can set up [special payment conditions](/en/tutorial/special-conditions).
8. Click __Save__.

After following the steps indicated, WebPay will appear at your store checkout as a payment option for your customers to use.
