---
title: 'Setting up CyberSource gateway'
id: 6nhvUTrLxeacsoYG6GkGM
status: PUBLISHED
createdAt: 2018-04-30T17:34:57.517Z
updatedAt: 2023-03-29T00:33:54.554Z
publishedAt: 2023-03-29T00:33:54.554Z
firstPublishedAt: 2018-04-30T20:20:44.704Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Financial
author: 245tA425AIeioKAk2eaiwS
slug: setting-up-cybersource-gateway
legacySlug: setting-up-cybersource-gateway
subcategory: 3tDGibM2tqMyqIyukqmmMw
---

CyberSource is a [gateway](/en/tutorial/what-is-a-payment-gateway) that offers a number of solutions to help your store manage payments. Among them is a payment __gateway__, which offers integration with the VTEX platform. If you are looking for more details about CyberSource __antifraud__, read [this Help article](/en/tutorial/setting-up-cybersource-antifraud).

To set up CyberSource __gateway__, follow the steps below:

## Setting up CyberSource gateway affiliation
1. In the VTEX Admin, go to **Store Settings** > **Payment** > **Settings**, or type **Settings** in the search bar at the top of the page.
2. On the __Gateway Affiliations__ tab, click the __+__ button.
3. Click the __CyberSource__ connector that is in the _OTHERS_ section.
4. Fill in the registration fields with the data provided by CyberSource (_Merchant ID/ Id of Merchant at CyberSource_, _Username / Username used on Cybersource panel_ and _Password / Password used on Cybersource panel_).
5. In the __Company's  name__ field, enter the business name of your store.
6. In __Company's CNPJ__, inform the number of your store's CNPJ.
7. In the __Currency__ field, choose the currency that will be used in your store transactions.
8. In __Private certificate (.p12)__ , upload a valid private certificate (generated by you, using a third-party certifier or software) with a .p12 extension and key.
9. In the __Private certificate password__, enter the password (it is your _Merchant ID/ Id of Merchant at CyberSource_).
10. Click __Save__.

## Setting up the payment condition
After following the steps indicated above, the CyberSource gateway will be configured in your store. So while you're registering a payment condition, it will be available in the __Process with affiliation__ field (provided the payment method is compatible with CyberSource). To learn how to set up payment conditions, visit [this Help article](/en/tutorial/how-to-configure-payment-conditions).
