---
title: 'Database Maintenance (Full Cleanup)'
id: 34P9LGs7BCIQK6acQom802
status: PUBLISHED
createdAt: 2018-02-07T14:32:22.879Z
updatedAt: 2024-09-30T15:15:49.788Z
publishedAt: 2024-09-30T15:15:49.788Z
firstPublishedAt: 2018-02-07T16:44:48.971Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Others
author: 1malnhMX0vPThsaJaZMYm2
slugEN: database-maintenance-full-cleanup
locale: en
legacySlug: understanding-how-to-maintain-a-database
subcategoryId: 63DHe3VQEEE6Uuua8gIs2M
---

At the beginning of a VTEX store operation, it is often necessary to test the platform functions and to get used to the tools, processes, and possible results. To revert the results of some of these operations, we provide the following URL to clean up the store database:

`https://{AccountName}.myvtex.com/admin/Site/fullcleanup.aspx`

On this page, you can clean up the catalog and restart the indexer, removing all products from your store.

For security reasons, only the <a href="https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/what-is-the-master-user--3oPr7YuIkEYqUGmEqIMSEy">Sponsor user</a> has access to Database Maintenance operations. If any other user tries to access this page, a message informing the account manager's email address will be displayed, and all buttons will become inactive.

These are the operations available:

- __Re-register prices in SmartCheckout__: When you re-register prices in SmartCheckout, the system overwrites the values with those added in the previous version.

- __Delete indexer products__: If you delete products from the indexer, your store will no longer have any products to be displayed.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <p>The following rules apply to the <strong>Delete Indexer Products</strong> button:
<ul> <li>You can perform this action only for stores with less than 10,000 products. For stores with a more extensive catalog, you must <a href="https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/abrir-chamados-para-o-suporte-vtex--16yOEqpO32UQYygSmMSSAM">create a ticket for the VTEX support</a> requesting an indexer cleanup and a database reindexing.</li>
<LI>When a user deletes products from the indexer, the account is blocked from performing this action for 24 hours.</li>
<li>There is a queue to process the requests generated by the <i>Delete Indexer Products</i> button. After clicking the button, the estimated waiting time appears in a log at the bottom of the page. The queue is global and applies to all users to ensure the security of the VTEX platform.</li></ul>
  </p>
</div>

- __Delete products/SKUs and related items__: With this operation, your products, SKUs, and related items will be permanently removed from your store.

- __Delete categories, brands, fields, and related items__: By deleting Categories, Brands, Fields, and related items, they will be permanently removed from your store. Before performing this operation, you must delete your Products and SKUs.

- __Delete sellers and related items__: By deleting Sellers and related items, they will be permanently removed from your store.

- __Schedule full reindexing__: When you reindex the database, your products enter an indexing queue. __The store’s products remain available for sale during the indexing process__. They enter a queue for data updates and remain available for purchase on the website. Warning: After clicking on __Reindex Database__, the process starts automatically.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <p>Please remember that you must <strong>Delete Indexer Products</strong> after performing any other operations on this page, except <strong>Schedule full reindexing</strong>. Otherwise, users may experience errors when accessing product, category, or search results pages.</p>
</div>
