---
title: 'Setting up payments with Alignet'
id: 4qfl6jgDyMGA0IuM0siEii
status: ARCHIVED
createdAt: 2018-03-28T20:48:01.728Z
updatedAt: 2024-03-18T17:48:35.669Z
publishedAt: 
firstPublishedAt: 2018-03-28T23:00:56.209Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Financial
author: 245tA425AIeioKAk2eaiwS
slug: setting-up-payments-with-alignet
locale: en
legacySlug: setting-up-payments-with-alignet
subcategoryId: 3tDGibM2tqMyqIyukqmmMw
---

>❗ This payment integration can no longer be configured on the platform due to the [legacy provider removal process](https://help.vtex.com/en/announcements/legacy-payment-connectors-will-be-discontinued-in-2024--4R5YIjUu1IWkiOHzXtQU14) and the article will soon be removed from the Help Center. Check with your provider for more information about developing the new payment integration and the steps required for migrating settings in your store.

On VTEX platform, you can set up the Alignet [sub-acquirer](/en/tutorial/what-is-a-sub-acquirer) to receive payments in your store. With it, your client chooses the __payment method__ Alignet and is redirected for authentication in the sub-acquirer's environment.

To configure Alignet, follow the steps below:

1. In the VTEX Admin, go to __Store Settings > Payment > Providers__, or type __Providers__ in the search bar at the top of the page.
2. On the providers screen, click the `New Provider` button.
3. Type the name __Alignet__ in the search bar and click on the name of the provider.
4. In the __Acquirer__ field, choose the acquirer that will be used in the integration.
5. Fill in the registration fields with the data provided by Alignet (fields _Código Adquirente_, _CodigoComercio_, _CodigoMall_, _CodigoTerminal_ _ChavePrivadaAssinatura_, _ChavePrivadaCriptografia_, _ChavePublicaAssinaturaAlignet_ and _ChavePublicaCriptografiaAlignet_).
6. In the __CodigoMoeda__ field, fill in the code [ISO 4217](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) of the currency that will be used in the payments.
7. In __Linguagem__ ("Language"), choose between Spanish and English.
8. In the __Vector__ field, fill in the sequence of up to 16 characters (letters and numbers only) generated by your store.
9. Click `Save`.

## Setting up Alignet payment condition

1. Within the Payments __Settings__, click on the __Payment conditions__ tab.
2. Click the __+__ button.
3. Click __Alignet__ payment method.
4. Click the __Status__ button to enable this payment condition.
5. If your store has an anti-fraud set up, you can activate it by checking the __Use Anti-Fraud__ box.
6. If you wish, you can also add a [special payment condition](/en/tutorial/special-conditions).
8. Click ´Save`.

After following the steps indicated above, Alignet will appear at your store checkout as a payment option. After clicking __Finish Purchase__, your client will be redirected to authentication in the Alignet environment. 

You may also enable this payment condition by using the [PayMee](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/setting-up-the-paymee-gateway--3fsilRdrBS6GOAy622soWy).
