---
title: 'Setting up FirstData acquirer'
id: 4mW6gU343eWY6c8m6ocO0i
status: ARCHIVED
createdAt: 2018-04-26T21:04:20.319Z
updatedAt: 2024-03-18T18:23:46.570Z
publishedAt: 
firstPublishedAt: 2018-04-26T22:08:51.029Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Financial
author: 245tA425AIeioKAk2eaiwS
slug: setting-up-firstdata-acquirer
locale: en
legacySlug: setting-up-firstdata-acquirer
subcategoryId: 3tDGibM2tqMyqIyukqmmMw
---

>❗ This payment integration can no longer be configured on the platform due to the [legacy provider removal process](https://help.vtex.com/en/announcements/legacy-payment-connectors-will-be-discontinued-in-2024--4R5YIjUu1IWkiOHzXtQU14) and the article will soon be removed from the Help Center. Check with your provider for more information about developing the new payment integration and the steps required for migrating settings in your store.

At VTEX, it is possible to integrate with FirstData. With this provider, your store can make sales using credit and debit cards, and Plan Ahora (Argentine payment system).

To configure FirstData, follow the steps below:

1. In the VTEX Admin, go to __Store Settings > Payment > Providers__, or type __Providers__ in the search bar at the top of the page.
2. On the providers screen, click the `New Provider` button.
3. Type the name __FirstData__ in the search bar and click on the name of the provider.
4.  Fill in the requested fields with the following information:

- __Username__: User ID that has permission to access the Web Service API. This information is necessary to perform basic authorization.  
- __Basic authorization password__: FirstData user's general password (the same one mentioned in the “Username” field), which will be used for authorization.  
- __Store ID__: Code that is sent in the .xml file of the requests.
- __Country__: Country of origin. 
- __Currency__: Currency of the country of origin. 
- __Soft descriptor__: Text that will identify the purchase on your customer's statement. 
- __Private certificate password__: Certificate password in your store. 
- __Private certificate (.p12)__: Upload a valid private certificate (generated by you, using a certifier or specialized software), with a .p12 extension and key.
- __Plan Ahora__: If you have enabled Ahora government plan options with FirstData, choose "True", otherwise choose "False". For more details about the Ahora plan, [click on](http://planesahora.gob.fiservargentina.com/).

  - __Ahora 3 program__: For discounts on installments made in 3 installments.
  - __Ahora 6 program__: For discounts on installments made in 6 installments.
  - __Ahora 10 program__: For discounts on installments made in 10 installments.
  - __Ahora 12 program__: For discounts on installments made in 12 installments.
  - __Ahora 18 program__: For discounts on installments made in 18 installments.
  - __Ahora 24 program__: For discounts on installments made in 24 installments.
  - __Ahora 30 program__: For discounts on installments made in 30 installments.

- __Auto Settle__: Configure this option to define when automatic payment capture will take place.

  - __Inmediatamente__: Settlement will be carried out immediately after payment is authorized.
  - __1 a 30 dias__: The settlement will be carried out after payment authorization, taking into account the selected number of days.
  - __Desactivado__: Automatic capture will be turned off and will not have the platform's default behavior (4 days for capture). This way, the order will only be captured at the time it is invoiced, or if [manual settlement](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/payments-gateway-api#post-/api/pvt/transactions/-transactionId-/settlement-request) is triggered.

- __Change Margin__: Set the percentage margin for a payment to be modified to a higher amount than initially authorized. If the purchase was closed and authorized for BRL 100.00, for example, but there is a [change in the order](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/changing-items-from-a-complete-order) to a higher value before capture, this connector allows the increase to be up to 20% of the initially authorized value.

<ul>
5. Click <b>Save</b>.
  </ul>

To configure the payment methods to be processed by Appmax, access [Configuring Payment Conditions](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/how-to-configure-payment-conditions--tutorials_455#).

To set special conditions on payment methods, go to [Configuring payment special conditions](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/special-conditions--tutorials_456#).

After following the indicated steps, FirstData connector may take up to 10 minutes to appear at your store's checkout as a payment option.
