---
title: 'Setting up payments with PayClub'
id: 3C3bDia3Tyq48MOuMomcUW
status: ARCHIVED
createdAt: 2018-04-03T13:12:17.337Z
updatedAt: 2024-03-18T19:14:09.539Z
publishedAt: 
firstPublishedAt: 2018-04-03T15:07:32.416Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Financial
author: 245tA425AIeioKAk2eaiwS
slug: setting-up-payments-with-payclub
locale: en
legacySlug: setting-up-payments-with-payclub
subcategoryId: 3tDGibM2tqMyqIyukqmmMw
---

>❗ This payment integration can no longer be configured on the platform due to the [legacy provider removal process](https://help.vtex.com/en/announcements/legacy-payment-connectors-will-be-discontinued-in-2024--4R5YIjUu1IWkiOHzXtQU14) and the article will soon be removed from the Help Center. Check with your provider for more information about developing the new payment integration and the steps required for migrating settings in your store.

You can configure PayClub [sub-acquirer](/en/tutorial/what-is-a-sub-acquirer) to receive payments at your store. With it, your client chooses the __payment method__ PayClub and performs the authentication in the external environment of the payment solution.

To enable PayClub payments, follow the steps below:

## Setting up PayClub gateway affiliation
1. In the VTEX Admin, go to **Store Settings** > **Payment** > **Settings**, or type **Settings** in the search bar at the top of the page.
2. On the __Gateway Affiliations__ tab, click the __+__ button.
3. Click the __PayClub__ connector.
4. Fill in the registration fields with the data provided by PayClub (fields _Código Adquirente_, _MerchantId_, _LocalId_, _ChavePrivadaAssinatura_, _ChavePrivadaCriptografia_, _ChavePublicaAssinaturaPayClub_, _ChavePublicaCriptografiaPayClub_ and _Simetrica_).
5. In the __RUC__ field, enter your store registration code.
6. In __CodigoMoeda__, fill in the [ISO 4217 code](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) of the currency that will be used in the payments.
7. In the __Vector__ field, type the string of up to 16 characters (letters and numbers only) generated by your store.
8. In __Zona Horaria__, set the time zone for downloading the bank reconciliation file.
9. Click __Save__.

## Setting up PayClub payment condition
1. Within Payments __Settings__, click on the __Payment conditions__ tab.
2. Click the __+__ button. 
3. Select __PayClub__ payment method.
4. Click the __Status__ button to enable this payment condition.
5. In __Processar com a afiliação__ ("Process with affiliation"), the option _PayClub_ will already be selected (since it's the only one available).
6. If there is an anti-fraud set up in your store, you can activate it for this payment condition by checking the __Use Anti-Fraud__ box.
7. You can configure [special payment conditions](/en/tutorial/special-conditions).
8. Click __Save__.

After following the steps indicated above, PayClub will appear at your store checkout as a payment option. After clicking to finish purchase, your client will be redirected to authentication in the PayClub environment.
