---
title: 'Setting up CyberSource antifraud'
id: 2Z88QmpRAsWmI0qaCo4aQg
status: PUBLISHED
createdAt: 2018-04-30T18:08:44.396Z
updatedAt: 2024-03-15T15:29:09.166Z
publishedAt: 2024-03-15T15:29:09.166Z
firstPublishedAt: 2018-04-30T20:25:40.199Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Financial
author: 245tA425AIeioKAk2eaiwS
slugEN: setting-up-cybersource-antifraud
legacySlug: setting-up-cybersource-antifraud
locale: en
subcategoryId: 3tDGibM2tqMyqIyukqmmMw
---

CyberSource is a company that offers several solutions to help you manage your store's payments. These include a [gateway](/en/docs/tutorials/what-is-a-payment-gateway) and an [antifraud](/en/docs/tutorials/what-is-anti-fraud) system, both with integrations available at VTEX.

If you are looking for more details about __gateway__ CyberSource, read [this Help article](/en/docs/tutorials/setting-up-cybersource-gateway). To configure CyberSource __antifraude__, follow the steps below:

## Setting up the CyberSource Anti-Fraud

> ℹ️ Each store must have only one Device Fingerprint registered. Check if you have already registered the Device Fingerprint in another connector, before performing Step 6. of this section.

1. In the VTEX Admin, go to __Store Settings > Payment > Providers__, or type __Providers__ in the search bar at the top of the page.
2. On the provider's screen, click the `New Provider` button.
3. Type __Cybersource__ in the search bar and click on the provider's name.
4. If you wish to modify the identification name to be displayed for the Cybersource anti-fraud on the VTEX Admin screen, enter the information in the __Name__ field in __Basic Information__.
5. Set the `https://{store}.vtexpayments.com.br/api/pub/cybersource/antifraud/notification` URL on the CyberSource website, replacing `{store}` with your store name. This will enable notifications when the status of an order changes.
6. Set up the device fingerprint in Google Tag Manager using [this Help article](/en/faq/how-to-set-up-the-device-fingerprint-for-braspagcybersource).
7. Fill in the __Merchant ID on Cybersource__, __Your CyberSource username__, and __Your Cybersource password__ fields according to data provided by CyberSource.
8. In __Your company's name__, enter the business name of your store.
9. In __Your company's registration number__, inform the tax id number of your store.
10. Under __Private certificate (.p12)__, upload a valid private certificate (generated by you, using a third-party certifier or software), with a .p12 extension and key.
11. In __Private certificate password__, enter the password you created to access the certificate.
12. In __Merchant Key ID__ and __Merchant Secret Key__, enter data provided by CyberSource to access reporting API.
13. In __Documento Opcional__, select whether document submission is required for fraud analysis.
14. Under __Send authenticated transactions?__, choose whether to send all transactions for anti-fraud analysis or only those that are not authenticated.
15. Click `Save`.

## Associating the anti-fraud with a payment condition
After setting up CyberSource's anti-fraud system, it will be available for use in your store. But you must associate it with the payment conditions, either the ones that are already configured or the ones that you are still going to make available.

1. In the VTEX Admin, access __Store Settings > Payment > Settings__, or type __Settings__ in the search bar at the top of the page.
2. On the __Payment Conditions__ tab, click the `+` button.
3. Click on the desired condition or [create a new payment condition](/en/tutorial/how-to-configure-payment-condition).
5. Check the __Use anti-fraud solution__ option.
6. Select CyberSource.
7. Click `Save`.

> ⚠️ For a transaction to go through antifraud analysis, **the payment condition used by the customer must be associated with it**.
