---
title: 'Changing the order of payment methods at checkout'
id: frequentlyAskedQuestions_490
status: PUBLISHED
createdAt: 2019-01-24T20:45:54.205Z
updatedAt: 2023-10-31T17:27:08.660Z
publishedAt: 2023-10-31T17:27:08.660Z
firstPublishedAt: 2019-01-24T22:12:00.925Z
contentType: tutorial
productTeam: Shopping
author: authors_84
slugEN: how-to-change-the-order-of-payment-methods-at-checkout
locale: en
legacySlug: how-to-change-the-order-of-payment-methods-at-checkout
subcategoryId: 6XAvmMxp7yyY06ewYMuggs
---

There are to ways to change the display order of your store’s payment methods at checkout:
- Through Admin.
- Through JavaScript customizations.

>⚠️ **Note:** for security and performance reasons, **we do not recommend** that you alter the checkout JavaScript archives. VTEX does not take responsibility for any problems caused after the alteration of this code.

## How Sorting Works

In general, the display of [payment conditions](/en/tutorial/how-to-configure-payment-conditions) at checkout is defined by the order in which they were registered in the Admin's Payments section. In other words, the payment option that has been active the longest in your store will be the first one displayed to your customer. 

But changing this ordering is simple. First, deactivate the pre-established payment conditions. You can then arrange the payment methods the way you prefer, and then the conditions again.

However, this behavior is not a universal rule. This happens because, in order to appear on the interface, some payment options need the identification code (ID) and the names generated by the affiliation used to process them.

VTEX does an affiliation row call and receives the necessary data to display the payment options. Since these calls are the last ones to be answered, the payment options that undergo this process always end up at the bottom of the list.
